so you know I have played anxiety and
it's getting worse
literally every time I get on a plane to
a point where crying hyperventilating
think I'm gonna die I want to jump out
the window
really really bad you do my mom does
what well so I asked the doctor and he
prescribed me this for plans but I'm
really scared
benzodiazepines are a class of
medications typically used to treat
anxiety and insomnia they include things
like xanax valium klonopin and one of
the fascinating things about Ben's days
means in the past let's say 20 years is
that there's been a steady increase in
prescribing in fact since about 1999
benzodiazepine prescriptions have
increased about 67 percent
there's also been a sevenfold increase
in benzodiazepine related mortality
since 1999 and so what I've written
about is that I really think that
benzodiazepines are like the hidden
epidemic there's been all this national
attention awareness around opioids and
how they can cause death and all kinds
of other adverse health outcomes
including addiction but we read very
little about benzodiazepines and the
fact that they are highly addictive that
they can cause death that they cause all
kinds of other adverse health outcomes
now the first drug that was tested in
this new era was Salmons alprazolam for
panic disorder okay and here was the
study they conducted that it was for
panic attacks it was xanax versus a
placebo group and after four weeks
xanax was doing better okay but it
wasn't a four-week study the way that
physicians typically prescribe Dawn's
Daisy beans to patients is contrary to
how they are recommended to be
prescribed by the FDA almost all been
Stasia pians are recommended to be used
only short-term now how we define
short-term is sort of in the eyes of the
beholder but generally when we're
thinking short-term we're thinking you
know on the order of days two weeks not
months two
years at eight weeks the alprazolam
patients were doing no better than
placebo patients okay and then from
eight weeks to 14 weeks westward and you
went through the drug because we knew
benzodiazepines are addictive so they
had to have a withdrawal phase at the
end of 14 weeks that xanax patients were
doing worse than they were at the
beginning and much much worse than the
placebo patients okay the trial told of
harm done it told that people who are
gonna get addicted when they came off
they'd have so all sorts of withdrawal
symptoms and some people unable to get
off and yet we commonly see in the
medical profession physicians who
prescribe bends days opinions to
patients has a sort of one-way ticket
they start the prescription the patient
starts taking it the patient endorses
that they feel better and 20 years later
they're still on that bends dazed pain
and often at a higher dose what did they
report
what did American psychiatry report they
didn't report the eight-week results
they focused on the four-week results
because that was a story that told of an
effective new treatment for panic
disorder they basically glided oh you
know didn't talk about the eight-week
results in the abstracts and completely
hid the 14 week results so what's the
evidence base these are effective for
panic disorder but there is there is a
body of literature now that shows that
these drugs do leave lasting for many
many people leave lasting cognitive
deficits no I'm thinking of a study
where people would you the study I was
going to say talk about whether people
were using multiple drugs over the years
benzos and some people were using
opiates and some people using stimulants
and the loss of brain function was the
greatest and the people using the benzos
especially compared to people using the
opiates for someone who's not taking
benzos I would go to great lengths to
convince them never to do it it's not a
good idea they can affect the
performance in school on the job
devastating in terms of driving people
can be as impaired with benzos driving
as they would be with alcohol so all of
the side effects that you associate
without
young people can also occur with benzos
and the combination of the two is added
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know